docs/cbl-lab/index.md, before:

---
layout: page
title: CBL lab
nav_order: 2
---

# CBL lab

In January, the Worcester public school system announced that due to the high incidence of COVID virus, Worcester schools would remain online only until further notice.   The schedule below is complete for the first six weeks of our semester;  we will adjust our plans for the second half of the semester depending on the situation both at Holy Cross and at the Worcester Public Schools.

## Projects

In the weeks of Feb. 8-9 to March 1-2, students will work in groups of 3 on new presentations designed for middle-school students covering one of the  foundational grammatical topics listed here. Ainsley and Jack will poll everyone for interest in particular topics.  
 
- Introducing the genitive case
- Modifying nouns with adjectives
- Conveying the past with the imperfect and perfect tenses
- Conveying passive and active voice in the imperfect tense
- Conveying passive and active voice in the perfect tense
 


## Weekly schedule 

| Week | Activity |
| --- | --- |
| Feb. 1-2 | *no CBL lab this week* |
| Feb. 8-9 | Welcome back; orientation to semester's work | 
| Feb. 15-16 | Student groups work on projects |
| Feb. 22-23 | Student groups work on projects |
| March 1-2 |  Student groups finalize projects |
| March 8-9 | Tues., March 9: visit from Stephanie Lindeborg ‘13, Boston Latin Academy.  *Time TBA*.  No meetings during regular lab time.|
| March 15-16 |  TBA |
| March 22-23 |  TBA |
| March 29-30 |  *No CBL lab meeting* |
| April 5-6 |  **Easter break**: *no CBL lab meeting* | 
| April 12-13 |  TBA | 
| April 19-20 |  TBA | 
| April 26-27 |  No CBL lab meeting | 
| April 28 Holy |  Cross Academic Conference – students share project videos in advance and respond to questions from HC community in Q and A |
| May 3-4 | Review and reflection on the semester |

Commit message:

Add note on CBL labs schedule

docs/cbl-lab/index.md, after:

---
layout: page
title: CBL lab
nav_order: 2
---

Repeating Zoom links for CBL labs:

- Monday 4:45 session: <https://holycross.zoom.us/j/94858327623>
- Monday 6:00 session: <https://holycross.zoom.us/j/96285498309>
- Tuesday 8:00 session: <https://holycross.zoom.us/j/97191045757>


# CBL lab

In January, the Worcester public school system announced that due to the high incidence of COVID virus, Worcester schools would remain online only until further notice.   The schedule below is complete for the first six weeks of our semester;  we will adjust our plans for the second half of the semester depending on the situation both at Holy Cross and at the Worcester Public Schools.

## Projects

Beginning the week of Feb. 8-9, students will work in groups of 3 on new presentations designed for middle-school students covering one of the  foundational grammatical topics listed here. The presentations should be designed for middle-school students; and should be approximately 8-10 minutes in length. Students will record the presentations and upload them to the College’s repository of resources for Worcester Public Schools. Here are the topics:


 
- Introducing the genitive case
- Modifying nouns with adjectives
- Conveying the past with the imperfect and perfect tenses
- Conveying passive and active voice in the imperfect tense
- Conveying passive and active voice in the perfect tense
 
 If you have a preference for a topic, please notify Ainsley and Jack by Friday, February 12. Ainsley and Jack will then place students into small groups within each of the three sections and notify groups prior to the Feb. 15-16 CBL labs.
 


## Weekly schedule 

| Week | Activity |
| --- | --- |
| Feb. 1-2 | *no CBL lab this week* |
| Feb. 8-9 | Welcome back; orientation to semester's work | 
| Feb. 15-16 | Student groups work on projects |
| Feb. 22-23 | Student groups work on projects |
| March 1-2 |  Student groups work on projects |
| March 8-9 | **Tues., March 9**: visit from Stephanie Lindeborg ‘13, Boston Latin Academy.  *Time TBA*.  No meetings during regular lab time.|
| March 15-16 |  Student groups finalize projects |
| March 22-23 |  discussion of CBL repository for Worcester public schools |
| March 29-30 |  *No CBL lab meeting* |
| April 5-6 |  **Easter break**: *no CBL lab meeting* | 
| April 12-13 |  TBA | 
| April 19-20 |  TBA | 
| April 26-27 |  No CBL lab meeting | 
| April 28 Holy |  Cross Academic Conference – students share project videos in advance and respond to questions from HC community in Q and A |
| May 3-4 | Review and reflection on the semester |
