docs/checklist/translation1/index.md, before:

---
title: "Translation 1"
parent: "Checklist of assignments"
layout: page
nav_order: 2
---


# Translation 1: wives of Hercules


## Concepts to review 

- temporal clauses with indicative and subjunctive
- indirect statement
- use of ablative and accusative to express time

## Vocabulary and notes

- *devirgino, devirginare, devirginavi, devirginatus*:
- *absum* (*ab* + *sum*): "to be away, be absent" (principal parts have the same forms as *sum*)
- *nuptiae, nuptiarum* (f.): "marriage, wedding"
- *certus, a, um*: "settled, determined, fixed"
- *intervenio* (*inter* + *venio*): "to come between, interrupt" (principal parts have the same forms as *venio*)

## Passage to analyze

(Based on Hyginus, chapter 33.)

Highlighting <span class='query'>like this</span> indicates words or phrases referred to in the following grammatical questions.

> Hercules cum in hospitium ad <span class='query'>Dexamenum</span> regem <span class='query'>uenisset</span> eiusque filiam <span class='query'>Deianiram</span> deuirginasset, volebat eam uxorem ducere.  cum Hercules <span class='query'>abesset</span>,  centaurus Eurytion petit Deianiram uxorem. quia pater eius centaurum timebat, <span class='query'>pollicitus est</span> se daturum.

><span class='query'>Tempore certo</span>, venit centaurus cum fratribus ad nuptias. Hercules interuenit et centaurum interfecit, Deianiram <span class='query'>abduxit</span>.




## A. Grammatical analysis

Place each clause on a separate line, indented to show its level of subordination.  Italicize the verb of each clause. For example, if you were given the English sentence, "They felt relieved when they realized that the translation was easy.", you would format it as

`They` *felt* `relieved`

> `when they` *realized*

>> `that the translation` *was* `easy`.

## B. Grammatical questions

1. Write a dictionary entry (nominative singular, genitive singular, gender) for *Dexamenum*, then identify the form *Dexamenum*.
1. Write a dictionary entry (nominative singular, genitive singular, gender) for *Deianiram*, then identify the form *Deianiram*.
1. Identify the form *abesset*, and explain why it is this tense and mood.
1. Identify the form *uenisset*, and explain why it is this tense and mood.
1. Identify the form *pollicitus est*.  What dictionary form would you look under to find this verb?
1. Identify the form of the noun-adjective phrase *tempore certo*, and explain why it is in this case.

## C. Translation

Please translate the passgae into idiomatic English.

## Submitting your work



In your github repository, create a file named `translation1.md`.

You can copy and paste this page in to set up a template for your submission.  Enter your answer next to each question.



<div class="note">
<h3>Tips for formatting your quiz in markdown</h3>

<ul>
<li>You can use the right angle bracket <code>></code> to indent a block of text</li>
</ul>

</div>


<p><b>Example</b>:  these lines</p>
<p><code>> When they saw the example,</code></p>
<p><code>they understood how indentation works in markdown.</code></p>

are formatted like this:

>*When they saw the example,*

*they understood how indentation works.*

<style>
code {
  font-size: 100%;
  font-weight:  bold;
}

.query {
  text-decoration-line: underline;
  text-decoration-style: wavy;
  text-decoration-color: blue;
}
</style>
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/introlatin.css">

Commit message:

Improved instructions for markdown formatting

docs/checklist/translation1/index.md, after:

---
title: "Translation 1"
parent: "Checklist of assignments"
layout: page
nav_order: 2
---


# Translation 1: wives of Hercules


## Concepts to review 

- temporal clauses with indicative and subjunctive
- indirect statement
- use of ablative and accusative to express time

## Vocabulary and notes

- *devirgino, devirginare, devirginavi, devirginatus*:
- *absum* (*ab* + *sum*): "to be away, be absent" (principal parts have the same forms as *sum*)
- *nuptiae, nuptiarum* (f.): "marriage, wedding"
- *certus, a, um*: "settled, determined, fixed"
- *intervenio* (*inter* + *venio*): "to come between, interrupt" (principal parts have the same forms as *venio*)

## Passage to analyze

(Based on Hyginus, chapter 33.)

Highlighting <span class='query'>like this</span> indicates words or phrases referred to in the following grammatical questions.

> Hercules cum in hospitium ad <span class='query'>Dexamenum</span> regem <span class='query'>uenisset</span> eiusque filiam <span class='query'>Deianiram</span> deuirginasset, volebat eam uxorem ducere.  cum Hercules <span class='query'>abesset</span>,  centaurus Eurytion petit Deianiram uxorem. quia pater eius centaurum timebat, <span class='query'>pollicitus est</span> se daturum.

><span class='query'>Tempore certo</span>, venit centaurus cum fratribus ad nuptias. Hercules interuenit et centaurum interfecit, Deianiram <span class='query'>abduxit</span>.




## A. Grammatical analysis

Place each clause on a separate line, indented to show its level of subordination.  Italicize the verb of each clause by surrounding it with asterisks. For example, if you were given the English sentence, "They felt relieved when they realized that the translation was easy.", you could write that in markdown as

```julia
They *felt* relieved
> when they *realized*
>> that the translation *was* easy. 
```

and it would be formatted as

`They` *felt* `relieved`
> `when they` *realized*
>> `that the translation` *was* `easy`.



## B. Grammatical questions

1. Write a dictionary entry (nominative singular, genitive singular, gender) for *Dexamenum*, then identify the form *Dexamenum*.
1. Write a dictionary entry (nominative singular, genitive singular, gender) for *Deianiram*, then identify the form *Deianiram*.
1. Identify the form *abesset*, and explain why it is this tense and mood.
1. Identify the form *uenisset*, and explain why it is this tense and mood.
1. Identify the form *pollicitus est*.  What dictionary form would you look under to find this verb?
1. Identify the form of the noun-adjective phrase *tempore certo*, and explain why it is in this case.

## C. Translation

Please translate the passgae into idiomatic English.

## Submitting your work



In your github repository, create a file named `translation1.md`.

You can copy and paste this page in to set up a template for your submission.  Enter your answer next to each question.



<div class="note">
<h3>Tips for formatting your quiz in markdown</h3>

<ul>
<li>You can use the right angle bracket <code>></code> to indent a block of text</li>
<li>Surround a word or phrase with asterisks `*` to highlight it (with italics)</li>
</ul>

</div>


<p><b>Example</b>:  these lines</p>
<p><code>> When they saw the example,</code></p>
<p><code>they understood how indentation works in markdown.</code></p>

are formatted like this:

>*When they saw the example,*

*they understood how indentation works.*

<style>
code {
  font-size: 100%;
  font-weight:  bold;
}

.query {
  text-decoration-line: underline;
  text-decoration-style: wavy;
  text-decoration-color: blue;
}
</style>
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/introlatin.css">
